README.md, before:

ji-go-2016
==========

`ji-go-2016` is a simple repository holding sources for the `Go`
hands-on session of the [JI-2016](http://ji.in2p3.fr)

An online version of the slides is served [here](http://talks.godoc.org/github.com/sbinet/ji-go-2016/talk.slide#1).

## Bootstrapping the work environment

### Installing the `Go` toolchain

The `Go` hands-on session obviously needs for you to install the `Go`
toolchain.

There are 3 ways to do so:
- install `Go` via your favorite package manager (`yum`, `apt-get`,
  `fink`, ...)
- install `Go` via `docker`
- install `Go` manually.

While all 3 methods are valid ones, to reduce the complexity of the
debugging/configuration/OS matrix, we'll only recommend the last one.

#### Installing `Go` manually

This is best explained on the official page:
http://golang.org/doc/install

On linux-64b, it would perhaps look like:

```sh
$ mkdir /somewhere
$ cd /somewhere
$ curl -O -L https://golang.org/dl/go1.7.1.linux-amd64.tar.gz
$ tar zxf go1.7.1.linux-amd64.tar.gz
$ export GOROOT=/somewhere/go
$ export PATH=$GOROOT/bin:$PATH

$ which go
/somewhere/go/bin/go

$ which godoc
/somewhere/go/bin/godoc
```

### Setting up the work environment

Like `python` and its `$PYTHONPATH` environment variable, `Go` uses
`$GOPATH` to locate packages' source trees.
You can choose whatever you like (obviously a directory under which
you have read/write access, though.)
In the following, we'll assume you chose `$HOME/ji-go-work`:

```sh
$ mkdir -p $HOME/ji-go-work
$ export GOPATH=$HOME/ji-go-work
$ export PATH=$GOPATH/bin:$PATH
```

Make sure the `go` tool is correctly setup:

```sh
$ go env
GOARCH="amd64"
GOBIN=""
GOCHAR="6"
GOEXE=""
GOHOSTARCH="amd64"
GOHOSTOS="linux"
GOOS="linux"
GOPATH="$HOME/ji-go-work"
GORACE=""
GOROOT="/somewhere/go"
GOTOOLDIR="/somewhere/go/pkg/tool/linux_amd64"
CC="gcc"
GOGCCFLAGS="-fPIC -m64 -pthread -fmessage-length=0"
CXX="g++"
CGO_ENABLED="1"
```

(on other platforms/architectures, the output might differ
slightly. The important env.vars. are `GOPATH` and `GOROOT`.)

### Testing `go get`

Now that the `go` tool is correctly setup, let's try to fetch some
code.
For this part, you'll need the following tools installed to actually retrieve the code from the repositories:
- `git`
- `hg` (*a.k.a* `mercurial`)

Without further ado:

```sh
$ go get -u -v github.com/sbinet/ji-go-2016/cmd/ji-hello
```

`go get` downloaded (cloned, in `git` speak) the whole
`github.com/sbinet/ji-go-2016` repository (under `$GOPATH/src`) and
compiled the `ji-hello` command.
As the compilation was successful, it also installed the `ji-hello`
command under `$GOPATH/bin`.

The `ji-hello` command is now available from your shell:

```sh
$ ji-hello
Hello JI-2016!

$ ji-hello you
Hello you!
```

### Installing one more needed dependency

In order to look at the slides off-line, we'll need the `present` tool.
Let's install it:

```sh
$  go get -u -v golang.org/x/tools/cmd/present
golang.org/x/tools (download)
golang.org/x/net (download)
golang.org/x/tools/godoc/static
golang.org/x/net/websocket
golang.org/x/tools/present
golang.org/x/tools/playground/socket
golang.org/x/tools/cmd/present
```

## Setting up your favorite editor

Extensive documentation on how to setup your editor (for code
highlighting, code completion, ...) is available here:

 https://github.com/golang/go/wiki/IDEsAndTextEditorPlugins
 
At the very least, you should try to install and setup `goimports`:

```sh
$ go get golang.org/x/tools/cmd/goimports
```

`goimports` provides automatic code formating as well as automated
insertion/deletion of used/unused packages (in your `import` package
statements.)

## Documentation

The `Go` programming language is quite new (released in 2009) but
ships already with quite a fair amount of documentation.
Here are a few pointers:

- http://golang.org/doc/code.html
- http://tour.golang.org
- http://golang.org/doc/effective_go.html
- http://dave.cheney.net/resources-for-new-go-programmers
- http://gobyexample.com

For more advanced topics:

- http://talks.golang.org
- http://blog.golang.org
- https://groups.google.com/d/forum/golang-nuts (`Go` community forum)
- the internets. typical queries are `go something` or `golang something`

Commit message:

all: update + add link to advanced talk

README.md, after:

ji-go-2016
==========

`ji-go-2016` is a simple repository holding sources for the `Go`
hands-on session of the [JI-2016](http://ji.in2p3.fr)

An online version of the slides is served [here](https://talks.godoc.org/github.com/sbinet/ji-go-2016/talk.slide#1).

For the talk about *ADVANCED* concurrent programming go [here](https://talks.godoc.org/github.com/sbinet/whispering-gophers/talk.slide#1).

## Bootstrapping the work environment

### Installing the `Go` toolchain

The `Go` hands-on session obviously needs for you to install the `Go`
toolchain.

There are 3 ways to do so:
- install `Go` via your favorite package manager (`yum`, `apt-get`,
  `fink`, ...)
- install `Go` via `docker`
- install `Go` manually.

While all 3 methods are valid ones, to reduce the complexity of the
debugging/configuration/OS matrix, we'll only recommend the last one.

#### Installing `Go` manually

This is best explained on the official page:
http://golang.org/doc/install

On linux-64b, it would perhaps look like:

```sh
$ mkdir /somewhere
$ cd /somewhere
$ curl -O -L https://golang.org/dl/go1.7.1.linux-amd64.tar.gz
$ tar zxf go1.7.1.linux-amd64.tar.gz
$ export GOROOT=/somewhere/go
$ export PATH=$GOROOT/bin:$PATH

$ which go
/somewhere/go/bin/go

$ which godoc
/somewhere/go/bin/godoc
```

### Setting up the work environment

Like `python` and its `$PYTHONPATH` environment variable, `Go` uses
`$GOPATH` to locate packages' source trees.
You can choose whatever you like (obviously a directory under which
you have read/write access, though.)
In the following, we'll assume you chose `$HOME/ji-go-work`:

```sh
$ mkdir -p $HOME/ji-go-work
$ export GOPATH=$HOME/ji-go-work
$ export PATH=$GOPATH/bin:$PATH
```

Make sure the `go` tool is correctly setup:

```sh
$ go env
GOARCH="amd64"
GOBIN=""
GOCHAR="6"
GOEXE=""
GOHOSTARCH="amd64"
GOHOSTOS="linux"
GOOS="linux"
GOPATH="$HOME/ji-go-work"
GORACE=""
GOROOT="/somewhere/go"
GOTOOLDIR="/somewhere/go/pkg/tool/linux_amd64"
CC="gcc"
GOGCCFLAGS="-fPIC -m64 -pthread -fmessage-length=0"
CXX="g++"
CGO_ENABLED="1"
```

(on other platforms/architectures, the output might differ
slightly. The important env.vars. are `GOPATH` and `GOROOT`.)

### Testing `go get`

Now that the `go` tool is correctly setup, let's try to fetch some
code.
For this part, you'll need the following tools installed to actually retrieve the code from the repositories:
- `git`
- `hg` (*a.k.a* `mercurial`)

Without further ado:

```sh
$ go get -u -v github.com/sbinet/ji-go-2016/cmd/ji-hello
```

`go get` downloaded (cloned, in `git` speak) the whole
`github.com/sbinet/ji-go-2016` repository (under `$GOPATH/src`) and
compiled the `ji-hello` command.
As the compilation was successful, it also installed the `ji-hello`
command under `$GOPATH/bin`.

The `ji-hello` command is now available from your shell:

```sh
$ ji-hello
Hello JI-2016!

$ ji-hello you
Hello you!
```

### Installing one more needed dependency

In order to look at the slides off-line, we'll need the `present` tool.
Let's install it:

```sh
$  go get -u -v golang.org/x/tools/cmd/present
golang.org/x/tools (download)
golang.org/x/net (download)
golang.org/x/tools/godoc/static
golang.org/x/net/websocket
golang.org/x/tools/present
golang.org/x/tools/playground/socket
golang.org/x/tools/cmd/present
```

## Setting up your favorite editor

Extensive documentation on how to setup your editor (for code
highlighting, code completion, ...) is available here:

 https://github.com/golang/go/wiki/IDEsAndTextEditorPlugins
 
At the very least, you should try to install and setup `goimports`:

```sh
$ go get golang.org/x/tools/cmd/goimports
```

`goimports` provides automatic code formating as well as automated
insertion/deletion of used/unused packages (in your `import` package
statements.)

## Documentation

The `Go` programming language is quite new (released in 2009) but
ships already with quite a fair amount of documentation.
Here are a few pointers:

- http://golang.org/doc/code.html
- http://tour.golang.org
- http://golang.org/doc/effective_go.html
- http://dave.cheney.net/resources-for-new-go-programmers
- http://gobyexample.com

For more advanced topics:

- http://talks.golang.org
- http://blog.golang.org
- https://groups.google.com/d/forum/golang-nuts (`Go` community forum)
- the internets. typical queries are `go something` or `golang something`
